TOPIC: FANUC Vision Line Tracking Setup
KEYWORDS: vision, line tracking, conveyor, moving part, tracking, iRPickTool
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Vision Line Tracking Setup

Filed under:FANUCLine Tracking
After a little digging into my records, I found that nearly 60% of the
projects I’ve been involved with over the last three years have used
vision and/or line tracking. It seems like integrators and end-users
tend to need more help when using these options. If they’re lucky, they
may have been trained by an expert somewhere, but they’re often stuck
with just a manual (if they’re that lucky) to try and fix some pretty
obscure bugs. A thorough understanding of how each piece of the stack
fits together really helps these projects go a lot more smoothly. This
post is on line tracking, but I’ll cover vision and how it fits into
line tracking in future posts.
If you are comfortable withUFRAMEs and
UTOOLs, you
should catch on to line tracking quickly. A tracking frame is really
just a standardUFRAMEthat moves as an encoder signal changes. The
most common use is tracking a conveyor belt. You mount an encoder to one
of the axes or use a friction wheel to get feedback when the belt moves.
You then sync up your tracking program with some external condition
(maybe a part passes a photoeye), and the robot then moves along with
the conveyor relative to that trigger.
All an encoder does is count as its axis turns. How do we convert
differences in encoder counts to real-world distances? Enter the encoder
scale.
Stop the conveyor and record the current encoder count. It’s just
happens to be 0 (how convenient!). Now jog the conveyor exactly 1 foot.
The encoder now reads 9144. So encoder counted 9144 counts over 1 foot
of conveyor travel… sounds like an encoder scale to me. Let’s convert
that number to metric since English units are garbage:
There you go, our encoder count changes 30 counts for every
millimeter of conveyor travel. That’s pretty good resolution, and it
allows the robot to track the conveyor very accurately.
You need to teach a frame for the conveyor belt. This frame will move in
the X-direction along with the encoder at the rate of the encoder scale.
It doesn’t really matter where your tracking frame origin is (although
it’s typical to at least have the Z-component be at your conveyor
height). It could be upstream of the robot, downstream, in the middle or
to the side of the conveyor. Wherever you put it, make a mental note.
Pretty much everything you do from here forward will be relative to that
point, and it will help you sanity check yourself later.
FANUC lets you teach both the tracking frame and encoder scale in one
shot. You’ll teach the origin point, then jog the conveyor some distance
before touching that original point again downstream. You’ve just taught
the tracking frame origin, the +X direction and the encoder scale. One
more point to teach the +Y direction is all that’s needed to derive +Z.
We have a tracking frame and scaled encoder feedback, but our tracking
frame will need a reference encoder value for any tracking to work.
Let’s do an example.
We’ve created a tracking program, and the encoder currently reads
673429.  We’ll use this as our trigger value. At this point anything we
do will be relative to the tracking frame origin as it is right now. If
we jogged the robot to that origin and recorded a point, the point would
read(0, 0, 0). If you put an X on that spot, jogged the
conveyor some distance and then moved touched up the X again, it would
still be at(0, 0, 0). If you leave the robot where it is and jog the conveyor
100mm before touching up the point again, you’d be at(-100, 0, 0)since the robot is now exactly 100mm upstream of the origin.
You’ll probably use some sort of sensor to detect something that will be
your reference. Let’s say you have a photoeye that’s exactly 200mm
upstream of your tracking frame origin. When you go to edit your
tracking program, it tells you that the part detect trigger may not be
valid, so you set a new trigger. Jogging a part past your photoeye, the
robot records the encoder count at the moment the sensor was flagged as
the tracking schedule’s trigger value. Any positions you record at this
point will be relative to the tracking frame origin as it was at that
instant.
You jog the target to where the robot can reach it. (The target just
happens to be a 100mm cube right in the middle of the conveyor, and you
also taught the tracking frame in the middle of the conveyor.) If you
teach a point at the center of the top cube face, what will the
components be?
Hopefully you came up with(-250, 0, 100). Remember how everything is
relative to the tracking frame origin? The sensor is 200mm upstream, and
the front edge of the part is what triggered the sensor. The robot only
needs to go 50mm further upstream to hit the middle of the part. Since
the tracking frame origin is at the conveyor’s surface, the 100mm
Z-component is simply the height of the target.
I’m glad you asked. Boundaries define where it’s safe and optimal for
the robot to track the conveyor. The robot will not start tracking a
target until the target moves past the upstream boundary. If the target
or the robot TCP cross the downstream boundary, the robot will stop with
an error. It’s your job to make sure the robot reaches the target and
gets out of the tracking program before either cross that boundary. (Oh,
and those boundaries are relative to the tracking frame origin too.)
As in all things, it’s really the relationships that are important. If
you understand what’s relative to what, it’s a lot easier to diagnose
and fix issues. Here’s a quick cheat sheet:
I hope this helps. Let me know if you have any questions in the
comments. Tune in next time for a crash course on robot vision, then
we’ll tie things together in a follow-up post on visual line tracking.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/line-tracking-how-does-it-work/