TOPIC: FANUC Robot Interference Zones and DCS
KEYWORDS: DCS, interference zone, dual check safety, safety zone, Cartesian check, space check
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Robot Interference Zones and DCS

Filed under:FANUCRobot Happiness
Put your robot in a good spot or suffer the consequences. It may seem
obvious, but the best programming in the world may not be able to save a
system where the robot has to struggle to get from point A to point B.
One of the first problems I had to solve as the newly appointed M-410iB
product manager back in 2008 was where both an end-user and an
integrator were blaming FANUC for overheat and throughput problems. “You
claimed that this robot could do 28 bags per minute,” the integrator
exclaimed. “We can barely do 20 without getting J2 overheats. We bought
the fan kit and everything… this must be a faulty robot.”
Try coming up with a politically correct way of telling the integrator
that they had mis-applied the robot during a heated conference call.
Even companies that push 50 robots a year make mistakes.
One of the most crucial decisions to make on a palletizing system is the
height of the robot relative to the incoming products and outgoing
pallets. Generally, you should follow two rules:
The reasoning behind rule #1 should be pretty obvious. If the robot is
building up a stack of products 10 feet high, it makes sense that it
should pick each product at roughly 5’ above the pallet. This way it
splits the effort in the Z direction between the bottom and top halves.
Rule #2 may be less obvious. Robots usually prefer to work in the upper
part of their work envelopes. Try and put yourself in the robot’s shoes:
would you rather move something from shelf to shelf at chest-level or do
the same motion on the floor while bending over at your hips?
This project broke both of the rules. The infeed conveyor and the pallet
were pretty much on the floor, and the robot was on the standard riser.
It had to bend way over to pick up each product, and as the unitload got
taller, J2 had to work harder and harder to move the robot vertically to
place and then pick again. By simply lowering the robot and raising the
infeed conveyor, the system started to make rate with no overheats, and
the fan kit was no longer necessary.
FANUC’s delta robots (like the M-3iA, M-2iA, etc.) are fantastic for
high-speed picking applications. After years of pushing the M-430iA to
the limit, these robots are like a breath of fresh air. However, they
too can suffer if a couple considerations aren’t made with respect to
their work envelopes.
These robots use ball and socket joints to connect each link-arm to the
base. As with any ball and socket joint (like your shoulder), they can
dislocate. When the robot is stretched out close to the extent of
its work envelope, these dislocations are much more likely. While not
catostrophic, reconnecting these link-arms is a pain, so it’s nice that
FANUC attempts to avoid them with software.
The robots constantly monitor the likelihood of dislocating each axis.
Depending on where the robot is, the payload, its vector, etc. the robot
will stop itself if that likelihood ever crosses a threshold. Pressing
RESUME is a lot easier than putting a link-arm back on, but any
production-stopping errors are frustrating. Care should be taken to
ensure the robot is not needlessly coming close to the edges of its
envelope (both vertically and horizontally).
There’s actually a region where the robot automatically slows down to
avoid these errors and dislocations. On the M-3iA, it’s a 500mm radius.
As you can imagine, this can cause major issues with a line tracking
system. Boundaries that work great at 100% don’t work so good when the
robot suddenly moves 20% slower. If you can, try and limit the robot’s
work area to the high-speed region. If you can’t, try and do something
clever with your end-of-arm tool to effectively offset the work
envelope.
Many mechnical designers simply do a reach study in SolidWorks to
validate a robot application. Unfortunately this simply isn’t enough for
applications that near the edges of the robot’s capability. ROBOGUIDE
does a great job of realistically simulating these robots. You can even
estimate the overheat on each axis for a given cycle.
I figure each hour spent in ROBOGUIDE saves two on the floor, and when
the consequences of a misplaced robot can cost you tens of thousands of
dollars, it’s worth it to produce a comprehensive simulation before
anything gets built.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/robot-work-envelope-considerations/