TOPIC: FANUC Program Maintainability Best Practices
KEYWORDS: maintainability, best practices, clean code, naming convention, structure, readability, jumping
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Program Maintainability Best Practices

Filed under:FANUCTP ProgrammingWorkflow
Continuing with last week’s theme of best-practices, I’d like to
discuss what makes certain programs maintainable and others impossible
to work with.Eliminating as much jumping as
possibleis a good start,
but there are a few other rules I always try to follow when working on a
project.
FANUC’s Teach Pendant doesn’t have much screen real estate. The default
editor can only display 11 lines of code (LOC), and you only get 20 in
the Double or Single Wide modes. That means that if you need to
troubleshoot a 200 LOC routine on the floor, you can at best only see
10% of the program at any given time.
It’s probably not realistic to keep your programs to fewer than 20
lines, but I generally like to keep them shorter than 60 LOC. Any time
you have a routine going much higher than 100 lines, you probably have a
good candidate for refactoring.
Check out theGnuWinproject,
specifically theCureUtils for Windows.
This will give you access to some great unix utilities such aswc,
which you can use to see how long each of your programs is:> wc -l src/*.ls
It’s pretty common to have to conditionally approach a given fixture
differently depending on where you’re coming from. You might accomplish
this with something like:
You pull up a routine calledUNLOAD_FIXTURE, and all you see is a screen
full of logic handling how the robot approaches the fixture. I tend to
extract pretty much any conditional to it’s own subroutine. This way you
end up with two shorter, more focused routines:APPROACH_FIXTUREandUNLOAD_FIXTURE.
I talked about the DRY Principle (Don’t Repeat Yourself) inmy previous
article about Clean Code. I absolutely
hate repeating myself: both in conversation and coding. Unfortunately
there’s not much we can do about an unattentive listener or a loud
restaurant, but we can generally avoid this annoyance when writing code.
Reducing duplication often comes at the expense of a little bit of
indirection, and it’s up to you strike the delicate balance. Personally,
I will almost always favor indirection over duplication. There’s nothing
worse than having to go and make the same change in 100 different places
when you could have just used a register in the first place.
This is in direct correlation with the previous point. Imagine having to
open or close your robot’s gripper in 20 different subroutines.
Something changes and the open gripper output moves by one. If you had
the foresight to put your gripper operation into its own subroutines,
you only have to change those subroutines– not the 20 programs that use
them.
Nothing ever runs perfectly. At some point your gripper is not going to
close all the way or a part-presence sensor isn’t going to get made. You
have to plan for these issues even if they only happen once a year. When
they do happen, it’s important to help your customer troubleshoot and
recover from the issue as quickly as possible.
Take the gripper issue for instance. The robot attempts to pick up a
part, and the gripper open/close signals do not look correct. What could
be the issue?
What kind of error do you present to the user? Hopefully not “The
gripper failed to close.” I would tend to present the user with the
issue, what could have happened, and how to fix each issue.
Clear error messages should result in fewer service calls and happier
customers. If you’ve kept your programs short and focused with little
duplication you’ll hopefully avoid many bugs that can keep you from
closing a project too.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/writing-maintainable-tp-code/