TOPIC: FANUC Background Logic Programming
KEYWORDS: background logic, BG Logic, background program, monitoring, watchdog, continuous
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Background Logic Programming

Filed under:FANUCTP ProgrammingTP+Workflow
FANUC’s TP programming language and the teach pendant’s built-in editor
are great tools. They allow relatively novice programmers to get up and
running very quickly. Teach a couple points, throw in a couple labels
andIFstatements, and you’re off to the races. However, anyone who’s
tried to do anything a bit more complex quickly realizes how cumbersome
programming on the teach pendant is. Navigating through multiple levels
of menus to find thePAYLOADinstruction or creating an extensive
mixed-logic conditional is really painful. At this point many
programmers switch to programming.LSfiles by hand.
Here’s the smallest program you can load onto a robot:
However, it might be good practice to start with a template that
includes all available sections:
The/PROGsection simply accepts the name of your program (letters,
numbers and underscores only, and it must start with a letter) followed
by an optional sub-type (e.g. Macro, Cond, etc.).
The/ATTRsection stores the rest of the program header information:
things like the creation date, comment, group mask, etc. If you choose
not to include any of this, the robot assumes a sensible set of
defaults.
I’m not sure what/MNstands for (motion?), but this is where your
program goes. You must start each line with a:and end it with a;.
You can optionally include a line number before the colon, but I think
including line numbers in your source code is a tragedy.
At this point there’s no good way of populating the/POSsection of
your program. I generally upload my program to the robot, teach the
point, then use the robot web page to view the program source and
copy/paste the position data after positions are taught. Maybe I’ll
write something better someday.
Unfortunately FANUC decided to squeeze an additional $500 out of
anyone who needs to do any real programming. The robot will not
translate your ASCII*.LSfiles into binary.TPfiles unless you
purchase the ASCII Upload option.
If you’re lucky enough to have a ROBOGUIDE license, you can side-step
the ASCII Upload option by having your virtual robot translate them for
you.
Here’s a simple Windows Batch file and FTP script that will upload all.LSfiles located in./srcto the virtual robot on127.0.0.2and then download the.TPfiles into./bin:
Note:keep an eye on your virtual robot’s error log or the FTP output
to see if any files failed to translate. Also make sure your the
currently selected program on your virtual does not to be translated.
(Abort all then select another program.)
You might write another batch file to then upload files to your real
robot at192.168.1.101:
Note:Again, the robot won’t load a file if that file is currently
selected on the teach pendant. (Abort all, select another program)
That’s what I said to myself last week while trying to find a rare bug
hidden within 15000 lines of TP code. The bug ended up being a simple
typo… something like this:
Can you spot the issue? Here’s how it looks after translating and
loading the file onto the controller:
I meant to useR[2:numreg two]in both conditionals, but I
accidentally changed the 2 to a 3 while hastily changing the other
expressions. The translator ignores the comment completely, so you have
no idea your code doesn’t work until you test it.
This can be particularly catastrophic when using positions and position
registers. Tell the robot to move toP[10:position one]when you meantP[1:position one]could be pretty bad. Gotta be careful when
programming by hand.
Here’s how this program might look if written with TP+:
Of course you can still make typos, but I think it’s a lot harder to
mis-type names than numbers. The translator will catch it if you typenmrg_oneinstead ofnumreg_one.
Iintroduced TP+back in January.
There’sa demowhere you can try it out.
I used TP+ exclusively on my most recent machine tending project, and it
was really refreshing. A single environment file holds all variables for
numeric registers, position registers, I/O, etc. Namespaces allow me to
organize data and I/O into logical groups independent of the robot data
numbering.
Let’s say you have to moveDI[1]toDI[56]for some reason, and this input
is used in 100 programs. Simply update the variable definition in the
environment file, re-translate and all the programs are instantly
up-to-date.
I’ll release a standalone version of TP+ eventually. Let me know if
you’re interested and I might get it done sooner rather than later.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/writing-tp-programs-by-hand---pros-and-cons/