TOPIC: FANUC Palletizing Patterns and Grid Calculations
KEYWORDS: palletizing, grid, pallet, MOD, DIV, offset calculation, row, column, layer, stacking
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Palletizing Patterns and Grid Calculations

Filed under:FANUCTP ProgrammingLine TrackingVision
I spent last week helping an end-user with their two-robot visual line
tracking system. As far as systems like these go, this one’s pretty
simple: just two robots, one backlit conveyor, one camera and basically
one product. The entire codebase comes in well under a thousand lines.
We had issues that were hard to solve despite the simplicity. What
follows is my process while debugging several common visual tracking
errors.
TLDR version: visual line tracking is hard.
Customer complaint: the robots are missing roughly 1 out of 8 or 9
products.
What you mean by “miss?” Is the robot innaccurate or is vision failing
to identify parts? Could it be a load-balancing or boundary issue?
Duplicating the issue in the customer’s presence is the best way to save
a lot of wheel-spinning.
We watched the system for a few minutes, and sure enough, the robots let
roughly 1 out of 8 or 9 parts through the system undisturbed. They
looked pretty accurate otherwise, so it’s probably vision-related.
The vision runtime showed a problem immediately: we weren’t taking
pictures often enough. Depending on the product spacing, the system
might see half a part on the upstream side of the camera’s field of view
(FOV) and then the trailing half on the downstream side.
Solution: take more pictures by decreasing the trigger distance.
Unfortunately decreasing the trigger distance caused us to start getting
a bunch of vision overruns. These errors occur when the system cannot
process the current image before it needs to start processing the
next one.
By taking pictures twice as often, we consequently cut the amount of
time vision has to process images by 50%.
A quick look at the Track Sensor status pageStatus > Type > Track
Sensorconfirms that the vision processing time was almost always longer
than the trigger interval.
Since we can’t slow down our conveyor or increase the trigger interval
(that would put us right where we started), we have to try to improve
our vision performance: simplify the vision process. Unfortunately, this
vision process was about as simple as it gets: one “Blob Tool” with a
pretty small range of acceptable area values.
I would expect a vision process like this one to take ~50ms, but this
one varied greatly: sometimes <100ms, but often over 250ms. This
indicates an overloaded CPU. Next stop:$idle_cpu_min.
The main robot has a lot on its plate: vision processing, queue
management and ethernet encoder master. Even with all that work to do,
I’d still expect to see some spare cycles available. Instead the
available CPU was consistently less than 1% while the system was
running. There must be a programming issue somewhere.
After a few minutes of sifting through the code, I found a spot where
the robot is thrown into a tight loop while waiting for parts. By simply
changing this action to be a one-time thing, we started seeing ~30%
available CPU. With a few extra cycles to spare for vision processing,
the vision process started running on the order of 50ms like I’d expect,
and we eliminated the overruns.
Don’t celebrate just yet. The vision system is seeing the parts so well
now that the robots have decided to handle the same parts twice: the
classic “ghost-pick.”
Ghost-picking is pretty common and occurs when the same part is snapped
multiple times by the camera. Luckily there’s a simple fix for this:
increase the overlap tolerance. Overlap tolerance defines the minimum
acceptable gap between parts when they are put into the tracking queue.
If vision tries to throw a part into the queue that will end up right on
top of an existing part, it’s thrown out as an overlap.
I encountered a red flag as soon as I went to increase this setting. It
was already set to 500mm (way too high). With this setting, the
system should discard any parts that appear within 500mm of each other.
Then how the heck are the robots picking parts that are essentially
right on top of each other? Is overlap tolerance broken?
Before crying wolf to FANUC, I took a few logs from the tracking queue.
VQLOGs show when parts are put into the queue, allocated, acknowledged,
overlapped, skipped, etc. These are extremely useful for debugging
load-balancing and inconsistent picking issues.
A simple way to test if all parts are getting into the queue is to feed
a known number of parts and compare it to the VQLOG. I fed 10 parts into
the system and watched the robots handle them all, sometimes more than
once. There must be some interesting stuff in the VQLOG.
The VQLOG indicated that many more parts were actually getting into the
queue. A little baffled, I remembered a similar issue from a few
years back where a customer had accidently put the robot’s tracking
boundaries within the camera’s FOV.  Let’s see if it happened again.
Sure enough, the upstream robot’s allocation boundary extended into the
FOV. The VQLOG suddenly makes sense. Here’s what was happening:
By simply pushing the allocation window out of the FOV, the robots
stopped picking the same parts twice. Unfortunately we’re now back to
square one: lots of parts getting through untouched.
Remember the 500mm overlap tolerance? Now that we’re not stealing parts
out of the camera’s FOV, overlap tolerance is working as intended, and
it’s way too high. I set it to something more reasonable (like 50mm) and
the picking finally started to look good.
Of course as soon as you fix one issue, the less crucial/annoying things
need to get fixed. Evidently these robots have run into each other in the
past. Sounds like we need to look at the boundaries again.
One of the many problems with tracking very high-speed conveyors is that
the robot requires a pretty long track window to actually perform its
tracking operation. Depending on the conveyor speed vs. the performance
of the robot, it may track for quite a while. This particular system was
using LR Mate 200iCs: great robots, but ~120ft/min is pretty quick no
matter what robot you use.
At this fast conveyor speed, the robot will probably never have to reach
the upstream boundary. By the time it’s tracked a part, it’s probably
200 or 300mm downstream, but what if the conveyor stops at just the right
time?
Likewise on the downstream side: if you have the discard boundary set
correctly, the robot shouldn’t hit it and get a “TRAK-005 Track
destination gone” error. But what if someone lowers the robot speed or
increases the conveyor speed? What if the robot goes for the next part
instead of skipping one?
This system had the upstream robot’s downstream boundary almost right on
top of the other robot’s upstream boundary. With this condition, if the
upstream robot tracks out and the downstream robot attempts to pick at
the very upstream side of its window, they’re going to crash. Moving
R1’s downstream boundary a bit upstream and R2’s upstream boundary a bit
downstream left ~300mm between them in the worst-case scenario which
should be plenty. I also set both robots’ discard boundaries to almost
the length between upstream and downstream boundaries to ensure that
they only go for parts at the upstream-side of their work areas.
This is how I think these issues started:
Visual tracking applications (and debugging them) is hard. It’s just one
of those things with so many moving parts (see what I did there?) that a
small issue in one place can cause other things to go haywire somewhere
completely different. A pretty straight-forward customer complaint led
me down the rabbit hole of trigger distance, vision overruns, CPU
overloading, ghost-picking, overlap tolerance and eventually the line
tracking boundaries before finally resolving it.
I’ve beenunfortunate enough to frequent this trail a
few times in the past. They’re always painful at the time, but once you
struggle through issues like these, you won’t forget. Keep breaking (and
fixing) things so you can fix them when they break unintentionally.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/visual-line-tracking-is-hard/