TOPIC: FANUC Timer Instructions
KEYWORDS: timer, TIMER, timing, cycle time measurement, elapsed time, performance
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Timer Instructions

Filed under:FANUCTP ProgrammingWorkflow
FANUC’s TP programming environment is great for creating simple programs
quickly. From the comfort of your teach pendant, you can record a few
points, turn a few bits on and off and have a fully functional demo
within a few minutes. However, as soon as you have to add some real
intelligence to your robot, you’ll quickly find the editor to be
cumbersome and slow.
I’ve already written abouthow I write my TP programs by
hand, but
here’s a quick trick I’ve been using to make my development faster and
my programs a little easier to understand: tiny programs. I’m talking
really small, like one or two lines.
Here’s a quick example of a rudimentary “move home” program:
Five lines of code… probably can’t get much shorter, right? But maybe
we can make it a bit more readable. Try this:
I know, that’s a lot ofCALLstatements for a 5-line program, but it
couldn’t be more clear. You’ll thank yourself when you come back to this
program in a year and don’t remember thatUTOOL[1]is for end caps,
turningRO[1]=ONopens the end cap gripper andPAYLOAD[1]is for an
empty EOAT.
Considering the fact that program names are pretty much the only unique
identifiers we get in this environment, shouldn’t we use them to our
advantage?
I’ve been using tiny 1-line programs for things likeUFRAMEs,UTOOLs,PAYLOADs,WAITstatements and part-presence checking. It’s a little bit
more work on the front-end, but it makes your programs much more descriptive
and readable, and I find that I write subroutines much quicker when I
don’t have to remember which array index constant goes with which
gripper, payload, etc.
Here’s how I would have programmed a pick routine before using this
method:
Let’s replace a few items:
Let’s pull out the gripper and part-presence checking too:
Let’s go a bit further, probably overkill:
To be clear, I don’t advocate extracting every single motion statement
into its own subroutine, but where do you draw the line?
Our goal is to program robots that work 100% of the time. They should be
able to handle common error cases (and uncommon, if you have
time!). They should just work.
I’ve found that it’s much easier to get things to work when I’ve done a
good job encapsulating tasks and hiding information that’s not
necessary. This keeps our code clean, readable and less prone to error.
TP’s syntax and environment may be robot-friendly, but it’s not very
programmer-friendly. We can do the other programmers that work with our
code (and our future selves) a favor by using well-named small
programs that make our programs easier to read and understand.
For more on this topic, there’s a great article by Edward V. Berard on the similarities and
differences betweenAbstraction, Encapsulation, and Information
Hiding.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2015/small-programs/