TOPIC: FANUC Motion Speed and Acceleration Tuning
KEYWORDS: speed, acceleration, ACC, motion tuning, performance, cycle time, trajectory
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Motion Speed and Acceleration Tuning

Filed under:FANUCLine TrackingVision
Inpart one of this
series,
we covered gripper design and testing, vision considerations, robot
selection, cell layout and choosing the correct number of robots for
visual tracking applications. This post will cover some other
considerations: conveyor flow, hardware requirements, setup and
configuration, and finally, programming.
Here’s the full list with links to each section:
If you consider a simple system with two conveyors: one for parts coming
in, and one for parts going out, which direction(s) do they go? Do they
both move in the same direction, or do they oppose eachother?
We call it “parallel-flow” when the conveyors both move in the same
direction, and we call it “counterflow” when the conveyors move in
opposite directions.
Some people may instinctually imagine a parallel-flow system while
others picture a counterflow system.
Each options has its own advantages and disadvantages, and those become
more evident and important as the number of robots increases.
What happens when a part is missed on the infeed? It simply goes off the
end of the conveyor. If there is something collecting excess at the end
of the system, it can simply place to any empty slot on the outfeed
without affecting the robot operation since it will be done downstream.
Imagine a long line of 10 robots. How does the most upstream robot
operate? This robot has a very easy job: it can pick 100% of the
incoming parts and place to 100% of the outgoing slots. What about the
10th robot? This one has it a little bit of harder. Assuming equal load
distribution, this robot has only 10% of the infeed choices the first
robot had, and it also has only 10% of the outfeed slots available.
Depending on the decisions the other robots have made, this robot’s
picks and drops may or may not be in sync with eachother. This causes
misses on both the infeed and outfeed sides of the system.
If a missed part on the infeed is placed directly onto the outfeed, this
immediately causes an imbalance in the system. Assuming the system has
equal part coming in and no excess going out, you’ve just filled a slot
that was meant for a robot to use.
What about the balancing problem? Picture the same line of 10 robots:
how does the upstream robot operate now? It has 100% pick opportunity,
but now it’s starved on the outfeed side, with only 10% to work with.
The 10th robot has the opposite problem: 10% of the available parts to
pick, but it can always place immediately.
It usually comes down to space and money. Parallel-flow typically makes
more sense from an automated line perspective (everything always moving
in the same direction from start to finish), but counterflow does have
some balancing advantages.
Load-balancing becomes extremely important as soon as you start working
with more than one robot no matter which direction your conveyors flow.
Counterflow systems tend to self-balance better, but you’ll probably end
up having to control it yourself anyway if you can’t tolerate many
missed parts on either side.
Go with parallel-flow if you can stop one or both conveyors without
affecting the rest of the system. Ideally you’ll be able to have a
slight buffer upstream on both sides that will allow the system to start
and stop both sides as necessary to prevent any lost parts.
At minimum, a dual-track visual tracking system will require:
If you are using multiple robots, you’ll need to decide how to get the
encoder signals to the other robots. You can either use a multiplexer +
additional cables or use the Ethernet Encoder option to send the signals
over ethernet. You’ll need a good switch (pretty sure FANUC recommends a
fancy and expensive managed switch, but you might be able to get away
with a cheap one) and a couple ethernet cables.
Here’s how the pieces fit together:
With the ethernet encoder option, you can connect one encoder to each
controller and then the signals will be passed over ethernet to the
other controller(s). The vision offsets will also be passed over
ethernet.
Without the ethernet encoder, you would have each encoder connect to a
multiplexer which then outputs each encoder signal to each controller.
Encoders are typically connected to the conveyor with either a coupling
or friction wheel. Both have advantages/disadvantages. Whatever you
choose, make sure you end up with ~20-30+ encoder counts/mm of conveyor
travel as your final encoder scale.
Setup is pretty easy:
I could probably write an article for each item 3-6, but I’ll leave
it at this for now.
When it comes to programming a visual tracking system, you have two
choices:
So the question is, should I use PickTool? The answer depends on a
couple of things:
The real question is, “will using PickTool save me time and/or money?”
Visual tracking is difficult, especially at high throughputs. Regardless
of whether or not you use PickTool, you will have to learn how visual
tracking works: how you teach your tracking frames, how you calibrate
vision, how reference positions work, etc. Adding PickTool requires you
to learn an additional set of conventions, programs, setup requirements,
etc., and it gets you further from the “metal” of the application.
Instead of writing a few hundred lines of code yourself, you have to
learn to work within the PickTool framework’s way of doing things.
If your application is simple (i.e. just one or two robots, nothing too
fancy), I would contend that writing your own TP programs would be a
very worthwhile exercise. You’ll develop a deeper understand for how
visual tracking works and eventually understand PickTool better if you
decide to use it.
I haven’t spent much time with the new iRPickTool software, but I
understand that FANUC has made the integration between iRPickTool and
the underlying visual tracking architecture much tighter. As a result
there should be less confusion over redundant setup screens, setup
conflicts, etc.
I hope visual tracking is not so intimidating now. I know I only skimmed
over a couple of topics (setup, programming), but I’ll expand on those
topics in future articles.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/your-first-visual-tracking-application-part-two/