TOPIC: FANUC Weld Application Programming
KEYWORDS: welding, arc weld, weld schedule, torch, seam, weld start, weld end
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Weld Application Programming

Filed under:FANUCKAREL Programming
You can do just about anything with FANUC’s TP programming language,
but there are some things it just can’t do. Enter KAREL.
KAREL is a lower-level language very similar toPascal. It
features strongly typed variables, constants, custom types, procedures,
functions, and gives you access to all sorts of useful built-ins for
things you may not be able to do with TP. (By the way, if you’re interesting in TP programming, please check outthe book I wrote on programming FANUC robots.)
KAREL is a compiled language; the source must be translated from a KAREL
source file (.KL) into p-code (.PC) before it can be loaded and executed
on the controller. Once your KAREL program has been loaded onto the
controller, it acts like ablack box; you can’t see the source or step
through it like a TP program.
As of the R-30iB controller your robot must have the KAREL software
option in order to load your own custom KAREL programs.
We all know that outputting “Hello, world” is absolutely vital to
learning any new programming language. Let’s make it happen in KAREL:
Let’s take a quick look at this program. The PROGRAM statement followed
by the name of the program must be the first statement in any KAREL
program. The END statement must use the same identifier.
Any statements within the BEGIN and END statements are executed by the KAREL
program. You can probably guess what the WRITE statement does. You can
optionally provide it with a FILE to write to, but by default it will
write to the default TPDISPLAY, the USER screen. Each item you want to
write can be separated by commas, and the CR stands for ‘carriage
return.’ Any subsequent WRITE statements will take place on the next line.
You can either edit and translate your KAREL source files directly in
ROBOGUIDE or use the ktrans command line utility that comes with it.
You can test your program in ROBOGUIDE or on a real controller. Just transfer
the .PC file to the controller via your favorite method (FTP, USB
stick, PCMCIA card, etc.), then run it or CALL it from a TP program. If you go to
the USER screen (Menu > 9), you should see “Hello, world!” on the screen.
Here’s how a KAREL program is structured:
Let’s create a quick program that demonstrates all of these options.
There’s a lot going on in this program, so let’s go through it section
by section.
The %COMMENT directive changes the comment that displays on the right of
the teach pendant SELECT menu.
Constants are values that cannot be changed in the program. I’ve created
a unique ID for each language that I know won’t be changed.
I created a custom type for a person. Each person data structure can
have a name of type STRING[16] and a language_id of type INTEGER. You
can access elements of your custom type with “dot” syntax (e.g.
type.element).
I defined a variable named people that is an array of up to 3 person_t
data structures.
I defined two routines: greeting, a FUNCTION which returns a STRING
value, and the PROCEDURE greet, which just WRITEs a message to the
screen.
Since I’ve created a 3-slot array of people, I have to initialize those
values. (Alternatively, you could set the KAREL VARs directly from the
DATA screen, but this is more demonstrative for this contrived example.)
I then call the greet() PROCEDURE, which takes a person_t as an
argument.
The output should be:
KAREL is an old language, so it has some pretty nasty limitations that
are remnants of an era when memory was hard to come by.
Identifiers (program name, constant names, variable names, routine
names, etc.) are all limited to 12 characters. Naming is hard. It’s even
harder when you have to smash things into 12 characters.
If your program gets too long, you’ll have to split it up into multiple
programs.
You may run into issues if you change a variable’s type or do something
like expanding an array, etc. If you run into any errors like this,
you’ll have to delete both the .PC and .VR file for your program before
re-loading it.
Many of the built-in procedures aren’t exactly easy or intuitive to use.
Take for example, the GET_VAR built-in for getting a variable:
Personally, I like to use assignment over calling procedures. I’d
generally write some general-purpose ROUTINEs to simplify things e.g.
While KAREL does provide quite a few built-in procedures, it’s missing
many common features you might expect from a programming language for
things like Arrays, Strings, etc. You may find yourself implementing
rudimentary methods over and over again before developing your own
environment libraries.
This is just the tip of the KAREL iceberg. Hopefully this example will
get you thinking how KAREL may be the right choice for certain
programming tasks where TP may not be so good. If you really want to
learn KAREL, see if you can get a copy of the KAREL manual from your
local FANUC rep or integrator.
I’ve written several otherarticles on FANUC KAREL programming.
If you are already familiar with KAREL or you want to look at some more
programming examples, check outKUnit, an open-source unit testing
framework for FANUC KAREL. If you want to learn more
about unit testing, read this article abouttesting FANUC TP and KAREL code.
If you enjoyed this post and are interested in TP Programming, please checkout the book I wrote,Robot Whispering: The Unofficial Guide to Programming FANUC Robots.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2013/introduction-to-karel-programming/