TOPIC: FANUC Error Recovery Programming
KEYWORDS: error recovery, alarm, fault, UALM, error handling, recovery routine, retry
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Error Recovery Programming

Filed under:FANUCTP ProgrammingTesting
I’vewritten about testing before, but I still can’t
get over the fact that the state of the art method for testing
multi-million dollar industrial robot cells is trial and error. That’s
why I’ve started working on an environment for reliably testing FANUC
TP code.
I’ve basically written aRubygemto correctly parse, interpret
and execute TP programs within a simulated runtime. With this
environment I can use any of Ruby’s great testing tools to make sure the
robot does what it’s supposed to do.
Here’s a simple example that usesminitestto test the operation of
some gripper macros:
If you’re not familiar with Ruby, here’s a quick summary of what’s
happening:
When I run the test, I see this in my console:
If any of these had failed, I can go back and fix the TP code (or the
test itself if it’s incorrect) and run my tests again to know that I’ve
fixed it without unintentionally breaking something else.
Here’s the simple TP code:
Testing can also help us communicate and document scope with the client.Cucumberis a behavior driven development (BDD) framework for Ruby
that lets you describe how you want the program to behave in plain
english, then test that behavior.
Here’s an example of how you might write a Cucumber feature for a
machine-tending application:
Cucumber works by linking each line of these behaviors with some code
that exercises the robot. The tests are to be written in such a way that
the client can read and sign off that they correctly express the
acceptance criteria for the machine. If the tests pass, you have an
acceptable machine.
If a bug pops up, you can write a test to duplicate the issue. Once you
fix it, you then have a test to make sure it never pops up again. If you
have a comprehensive suite of tests, you can make changes without
worrying about breaking things.
I still have some development work to do, but please send me a message
if this looks interesting to you. I’m not sure how or if I will release
this tool for public consumption, but I’m wondering if anyone
else out there feels the same way I do about testing.
The other cool thing about having a working TP parser and interpreter is that
I can hook it into all sorts of different things: anArduinorobot
that runs valid TP code, a simulation tool built inUnity,
or an iPhone app for writing programs on the go. Look out for future
posts on this subject.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2014/testing-fanuc-tp-programs-with-ruby/