TOPIC: Async Part Presence Checking with Multitasking
KEYWORDS: RUN, FLAG, multitask, async, part presence, cycle time, parallel task, F[]
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# Async Part Presence Checking with Multitasking

Filed under:FANUCTP ProgrammingConcurrency
I’ve spent a lot of time working on high-speed line tracking (iRPickTool) applications. When I first started working on them back in 2008, throughputs around 100 cycles per minute were really pushing the envelope (but this was when FANUC’s flagship high-speed picking robot was the M-430iA).
Since then FANUC has introduced a number ofDelta robots: theM-1iAin 2009, theM-3iAin 2010, theM-2iAin 2013(?) and theDR-3iBin 2019. These robots are much better suited for high-speed picking applications than the articulated M-430iA arm: lighter, faster, better work envelope– great robots.
Applications requiring throughputs in excess of 100 cycles per minute are pretty common now, but fast cycle times bring new challenges.
Here’s what I normally like to do during a pick cycle:
I had an application recently where the part-presence sensors were too slow. I put aWAIT-statement on the part-presence signals after the pick retreat move, and the system slowed to a grinding halt.
To be fair, these M-2iAs are incredibly fast. At 1kg, an M-2iA/3S takes ~40ms to move through a 50mm linear retreat on a 100mm segment from a dead stop. (i.e.L PR[x] max_speed CNT100 Tool_Offset,PR[y:-100mm] RT_LD50)
We were using vacuum sensors that had nowhere near the response time I wanted. Of course there were things we could have done to improve that response time a bit but not enough to get to the point where the robots were never held up. (Maybe vacuum switches weren’t the right choice here, but I digress…)
It turns out that I didn’t really care whether the robot picked successfully or not at the pick retreat position. It was ok to check before placing.
Great! So just move the part-presence checkingCALLand we’re done, right? I wish. This job had a lot going on.
There were three different grippers: single-, double- and triple-pick with a tool changer. There were also accumulating buffers the robots would fill or pull from depending on the status of the infeed and outfeed. Oh, one more wrinkle: for the triple-pick gripper, it was ok to not be completely full… sometimes.
We were picking blind on the infeed (coming away with 1 or 2 was ok), but we knew exactly what was coming out of the accumulators (mispick = bad). We’re also never quite sure (on the place side) where the parts are coming from. The dynamics of the system made any of these paths possible:
How do we check part-presence correctly on the place side if we’re not sure where we picked from?
I suppose you could do this by setting a bit for the pick location and then calling the correct part-presence check routine on the place side, but that seems brittle to me. I also prefer to figure out what I have as soon as possible – before I get to the place side, ideally.
I ended up handling this part-presence checking asynchronously. The robot would fire off a task during the pick retreat (one version for a pick from the infeed and another for the accumulator), and the place routines would happily wait for either task to return, blissfully unaware of anything complicated going on.
In the infeed pick program:
In the accumulator pick program:
In the place programs:
Obviously the contract here is that bothPPCHK_INFEEDandPPCHK_ACCUMULATORsetF[1:PartPresenceDone]when they’re done. To avoid repeating myself, the general-purposeCHECK_PART_PRESENCEroutine can be called with an argument of0or1to indicate whether or not it should “double-check” against what itshouldhave from the pick side; it returns a0toR[2:Status]if things look ok.
CHECK_PART_PRESENCElooked something like this:
The asynchronous part-presence tasks use this same checking program.
PPCHK_INFEED:
PPCHK_ACCUMULATOR:
I’ll leave the implementation ofRECORD_PART_PRESENCE,VALIDATE_TRIPLE_GRIPPERandSIGNAL_MISPICKto the imagination, but you get the idea.
There are several takeaways here:
Part-presence needs to be checked by the asynchronous routines and the placement routines; the only difference is whether or not we double-check the result. This is a prime example of when to use an argument (AR[x]).
TP does not support functions and return values, but we can kinda do this by setting up a convention for a return parameter (e.g.R[2:Status]here) or explicitly provide it in an argument (e.g.CALL SOMETHING(x)whereSOMETHINGreturns toR[x]).
When multitasking, you probably need to synchronize your tasks somehow. Otherwise you run the risk of a hanging task or running intoINTP-267 Run stmt failed/PROG-007 Program is already running.
Here we explicitly turnF[4]off before starting the task and ensure that all asynchronous code paths turnF[4]on just before returning. The robot always waits forF[4]before continuing in the main task.
I’ve written more on theRUNstatementhere, and you may findthis utilityuseful.
The main task doesn’t care about the details of our part-presence checking. It just cares about the result once it’s done. I find that separating details behind a simple pass/fail interface tends to work really well.
Hopefully this post provides a little bit of insight into how I break somewhat complex problems down into easy-to-chew bites, sometimes concurrently.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2021/asynchronous-part-presence-checking/