TOPIC: FANUC Condition Handlers and Monitors
KEYWORDS: condition handler, monitor, CONDITION, MONITOR, event, trigger, interrupt
CATEGORY: article
SOURCE: ONE Robotics Company Blog
APPLIES_TO: FANUC TP Programming, R-30iB Plus
---

# FANUC Condition Handlers and Monitors

Filed under:WorkflowFANUCTP Programming
When dealing with multiple robot systems, I usually find that
maintaining consistency from robot-to-robot is usually the most
difficult part. Simply getting backups of all your robots can be a pain
if you don’t havethe right tool for the job. If you’re using
Windows (you probably are), just a little knowledge of the command line
and theftputility will make your life a lot easier.
If you’ve never used the Windows command prompt before, readthis quick
intro from the Princeton CS department.
Go read my very first blog post aboutusing FTP with FANUC robots.
It describes how to use the Windows command line FTP client to connect
to your robots and download/upload files.
This client allows you to specify a command file which lists a series of
commands to be executed when you connect to the ftp server. The command
looks something like this:
In essence, connect to192.168.1.101and execute the commands listed
incommands.txt.
What doescommands.txtcontain? How about this:
What does this do? Let’s go over each line:
You can typehelpafter establishing your FTP connection to get a list
of possible commands. You can also typeftp --helpon the command line
to get a list of options for the client.
Now that you know how to use the command prompt and the command line FTP
client, let’s learn a little bit about batch files. Fromthe Wikipedia
article:
Batch files let us create little command scripts to automate repetitive
tasks. I won’t go over the entire command interpreter here, butthisseems to be a pretty comprehensive guide.
Finally, the good stuff: this is how I maintain consistency when working
on multiple robot cells.
First, TP programs. Whenever possible, I try to keep the programs
exactly the same on each robot. I usually start bydeveloping my
programs locallyand using a simple batch file to load them on all
the robots:
deploy.txtmight look something like this if you have the ASCII upload
option.
If you don’t have the ASCII upload option, but you do have ROBOGUIDE,
you can use themaketputility to convert your LS files to binary TP
files with another batch file,translate.bat:
First I delete all the existing binary files in the./bindirectory,
just in casemaketpfails and I don’t notice. Second, I translate each
LS file in the./srcdirectory to its corresponding TP file in the./bindirectory. See more on theforcommand (including what that%%~nfdoes)here.
My process then for keeping things in sync is as follows;
A couple of things to watch out for:
Maybe you want to sync the position and numeric registers on all your robots. Write
one program to grab the files from your “master” robot:
…and another one to update your other robots:
Combine them into a single program or create another one that does
everything:
As you can see, just a little command line automation can make your
robot programming go a lot smoother. Let me know in the comments if you
have any other little scripts that make your life as a robot programmer
easier.
I email(almost)every Tuesday with the latest insights, tools and techniques for programming FANUC robots. Drop your email in the box below, and I'll send new articles straight to your inbox!
No spam, just robot programming. Unsubscribe any time. No hard feelings!
©2013-2019 ONE Robotics Company LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy•Terms•RSS Feed

URL: https://www.onerobotics.com/posts/2015/programming-multiple-robot-systems-effectively/