TOPIC: Program Header
KEYWORDS: program header, /PROG, /ATTR, OWNER, COMMENT, PROG_SIZE, CREATE, MODIFIED, FILE_NAME, VERSION, LINE_COUNT, MEMORY_SIZE, PROTECT, TCD, STACK_SIZE, TASK_PRIORITY, TIME_SLICE, DEFAULT_GROUP, CONTROL_CODE, group mask, /MN, /POS, /END
CATEGORY: reference
SOURCE: FANUC Teach Pendant Help System / Operator Manual
APPLIES_TO: R-30iB Plus, TP Programming
---

2. PROGRAM HEADER INFORMATION 2. PROGRAM HEADER INFORMATION PROGRAM ELEMENTS 2. 
PROGRAM HEADER INFORMATION 2.1. Overview Program header information is specific 
information that identifies and classifies the program. Table 1, " Select Screen
Items and Operations " lists SELECT screen items and operations. Table 2, " Prog
ram DETAIL Screen Items and Operations " lists the SELECT DETAIL screen items an
d operations. The items displayed on your screen will vary. Table 1. Select Scre
en Items and Operations ITEM DESCRIPTION No. This item is the line number. Progr
am name This item is the name of the program. Attribute field This item is a des
criptive field for each program. This field can be any of the following: Comment
, Protection, Last Modified, Size, or Copy Source. CREATE Press this key to disp
lay the Create Teach Pendant Program screen from which you can create a new prog
ram listing. When you create a new program, it will be added to the Program name
listing. DELETE Press this key to delete a program. MONITOR Press this key to mo
nitor a program that is currently running. ATTR Press this key to select the app
ropriate attribute to display. COPY Press this key to display the Copy Teach Pen
dant Program screen from which you can copy one file to another. DETAIL Press th
is key to key to display the Program DETAIL screen. LOAD Press this key to displ
ay the Load Teach Pendant Program screen from which you can load the selected pr
ogram. SAVE AS Press this key to save the selected program. You can specify the 
device to which the program is saved. You can also specify a new name if you wan
t to save the file with a different name. PRINT Press this key to display the Pr
int Teach Pendant Program screen from which you can select a program to print to
the selected device. Table 2. Program DETAIL Screen Items and Operations ITEM DE
SCRIPTION AVAILABLE IN JOB OR PROCESS PROGRAMS ONLY AVAILABLE IN JOB PROGRAMS ON
LY AVAILABLE IN PROCESS PROGRAMS ONLY Creation Date This item is the date on whi
ch the program name was created. Yes Modification Date This item is the date whe
n the file was last displayed in the editor. Yes Copy Source This item is the na
me of the file from which the file was copied. Yes Positions This item indicates
whether the program contains recorded robot positions. Yes Size This item is the
size of the program in bytes. Yes Program name This item is the name of the prog
ram. Yes Sub Type This item is the kind of program you want to write. This value
can be one of the following: None, Macro, or Cond (Condition Handler). Yes Comme
nt This item is a description field for the selected program. Yes Group Mask Thi
s item identifies the group of axes, or motion group, that the program controls.
Yes Write protect This item identifies whether the program can be modified. Yes 
Ignore pause This item indicates whether the program will continue to run when a
n error occurs, a command is issued, or the teach pendant is enabled. Yes Stack 
Size When a program is executed, a stack of 500 long words (1200 bytes) is alloc
ated unless you specify a stack size. The stack is allocated from available user
RAM. The minimum and default stack size is 500. The maximum stack size is 4000. 
Yes Collection If the program sub type is not a collection, then this field allo
ws you to add the program to a collection or to multiple collections if $COLLECT
_CFG.$MULTI_PROG is TRUE. Pressing ENTER will bring a collection list so you can
select one or more collections. If the program sub type is a collection, then pr
essing ENTER will bring the collection editor so you can add and remove other pr
ograms to the collection. All program types can be added to a collection except 
collections themselves. No nesting is allowed. Refer to Section 3, "COLLECTIONS"
. Yes (for Process programs if $COLLECT_CFG.$MULTI_PROG is TRUE) NoDisp SubProg 
This item allows you to make a teach pendant screen not show the contents of the
program while the program is CALLED as a sub-program or as a macro. Cycle Time T
his item displays the cycle time for the most recent execution of the currently 
selected job or process. *** Last Cycle Time This item displays the cycle time f
or the second most recent execution of the currently selected job or process. * 
Gun On Time This item displays the total amount of time the gun was on for the m
ost recent execution of the currently selected job or process. *, ** Last Gun On
Time This item displays the total amount of time the gun was on for the second m
ost recent execution of the currently selected job or process. * Material Volume
This item displays the volume of the material dispensed in the most recent execu
tion of the currently selected job or process. * Last Material Volume This item 
displays the volume of the material dispensed in the second most recent executio
n of the currently selected job or process. * Default User Frame This item displ
ays the name of the user frame to be used by the process program. *, ** Default 
Tool Frame This item displays the name of the tool frame to be used by the proce
ss program. *, ** Part ID This item displays the number of the job being execute
d. Yes Equipment Number This item allows you to specify to two homogeneous dispe
nsing equipments controlled by one robot controller. * Line Track Schedule Numbe
r This item displays the current line tracking schedule. **** Line Track Boundar
y Number This item displays the current line tracking boundary set. **** Applica
tion Mask This item displays the currently set application in systems with more 
than one application available. *** Program Type The program type indicates the 
kind of Multi-Arm program being used. This should always be set to Normal Progra
m. Multi-Arm Main This item indicates the status of the Multi-Arm program in the
Family. It can be set to No, independent program, if it is not the main program 
of the Multi- arm family, Yes, Head of Family if it is the head of a family prog
ram, or Yes, Family Member if it is the main program of a family program. Head o
f Family This item indicates which robot is the head of the family for this job 
in a Multi-Arm application. Family Members This item indicates which robots are 
included as family members in a Multi-Arm application. END Press this key when y
ou are finished viewing program information to return to the Select screen. N/A 
N/A N/A Press this key to return to the previous screen. N/A N/A N/A Press this 
key to display application-specific program detail information. N/A N/A N/A 1 Pr
ess this key to add a motion group to your program. N/A N/A N/A * Press this key
to disable a motion group for your program. N/A N/A N/A ON/OFF Press these keys 
to set the appropriate items to ON or OFF. N/A N/A N/A *These items are shown on
ly for Dispensing systems with multiple equipment, to allow you to set the equip
ment number for your program. ** For PaintTool, this applies to process programs
only. *** This applies to DispenseTool and SpotTool+ only. **** This applies to 
DispenseTool and PaintTool only. Program header information is displayed only th
e first time you create a program. If you want to view this information again, y
ou must display it by choosing the SELECT menu and pressing the DETAIL key. See 
the following screen for an example. Figure 1. Program Header Information Progra
m detail Creation Date: 03-FEB-xxxx Modification Date: 03-FEB-xxxx Copy Source: 
Positions: FALSE Size 17 Byte Program name: 1 PROG742 2 Sub Type: [None ] 3 Comm
ent: [ ] 4 Group Mask: [1,*,*,*,* ] 5 Write protect: [OFF ] 6 Ignore pause: [OFF
] 7 Stack size: [ 300] 8 Collection: [ ] 9 NoDisp SubProg: [OFF\\\\\\\\\\\] The 
following sections contain details on each kind of program header information. 2
.2. Creation Date Creation date is the date on which the program name was create
d. 2.3. Modification Date Modification date is the date, according to the calend
ar in the controller, when the file was last displayed in the editor. This infor
mation can be displayed using the [ATTR] function key on the SELECT menu. 2.4. C
opy Source Copy source is the name of the file from which the file was copied. T
his field is empty if the file is an original file. This information can be disp
layed using the [ATTR] function key on the SELECT menu. 2.5. Positions and Progr
am Size The positions item indicates whether the program contains recorded robot
positions. When you first create a program, positions is always set to FALSE. Pr
ogram size is the size of the program in bytes. The program size can be displaye
d using the [ATTR] function key on the SELECT menu. 2.6. Sub Type Sub type ident
ifies the kind of program you want to write. These are: None Macro Cond Collecti
on - see Section 3, "COLLECTIONS" None If you select none , the program will be 
created as a .TP program, which can include any instructions in your teach penda
nt program. Macro A macro program created as a .MR program can contain any instr
uction and function as a normal .TP program. However, only macro programs can be
set to be executed in a variety of ways including from operator panel buttons, t
each pendant keys, and the Manual Functions menu. They can also be assigned a na
me in the macro table and be called with this name in a macro program. Macro pro
grams can also be called by a program when the MACRO instruction is used. Refer 
to the "Program Elements" chapter of this manual for more information. Cond A "c
h" program has a Cond (Condition Handler) sub type. Refer to the "Advanced Funct
ions" chapter of this manual for more information on the condition monitor funct
ion. Job A job is a program that includes one or more processes. When you run pr
oduction, you run the job that corresponds to the task you want to perform. This
job contains program calls to each of the processes that will be performed durin
g production. Process A process is a program that directs the robot to perform a
specific task. These programs are created for you so that you can move to the po
sitions you define in these programs using the Move Menu. Refer to the “Planning
and Creating a Program” chapter for details on how to define and use predefined 
positions. 2.7. Program Comment When you create a new program, you can also add 
a program comment to the name. A program comment includes additional information
that you want to further identify the program. This information can be displayed
using the [ATTR] function key on the SELECT menu, and also from the DETAIL funct
ion key. Length One to 16 characters Available Characters Letters : a through z 
and A through Z Numbers : 0 through 9 Symbols : _ (underscore), @ (at), * (aster
isk) Blank spaces Punctuation: ; (semicolon), : (colon), " (quotation marks), ( 
) (left and right parentheses), . (period) Content Should be descriptive and pro
vide additional information, if necessary. 2.8. Group Mask When you create a pro
gram, you define the group mask that identifies the group of axes, or motion gro
up , that the program will control. Motion groups define different groups of axe
s that can be used for independent pieces of equipment, positioning tables, open
ing devices, and other axes. There are eight motion groups available. The contro
ller can operate a maximum of 40 axes, however, only nine axes can belong to a s
ingle motion group. Note In HandlingTool and ArcTool, multiple motion groups mus
t be set before they can be used. Refer to the Software Installation Manual . If
a system has only one motion group, the default motion group is 1. An asterisk i
ndicates the group is not used. You can specify a program to use all eight motio
n groups, but only two motion groups can perform Cartesian interpolated motion w
ithin a single program. If you disable all groups, you cannot add motion instruc
tions to your program. Note In HandlingTool and SpotTool+, when you add a motion
instruction that has a motion type, the following appears on the screen: Group m
ask: 1, *, *, *, *, *, *, * You cannot change the group mask after you have adde
d motion instructions to your program. You will not be able to select group mask
in the program DETAIL screen. Note When using DispenseTool and multi-group motio
n all programs that use motion while dispensing are required to use group mask [
1,*,*,*,*,*,*,*]. Note For system level macro programs, the group mask cannot be
changed. 2.9. Write Protection Write protection allows you to specify whether th
e program can be modified. When write protection is set to ON, you cannot add or
modify any element in the program. When you have finished creating a program and
are satisfied with how it works, you should set write protection to ON so that y
ou or someone else does not modify it. When write protection is set to OFF, you 
can create the program and add or modify any element in the program. By default,
write protection is set to OFF. This information can be displayed using the [ATT
R] function key on the SELECT menu. Caution When write protection is set to ON, 
you cannot modify any program header information (program name, sub type, progra
m comment, group mask, ignore pause) except write protection. 2.10. Ignore Pause
If the program type has been set to NONE, you can use ignore pause to specify wh
ether the program will continue to run even when an error occurs, a command is i
ssued (such as pushing EMERGENCY STOP or HOLD), or the teach pendant is enabled.
Ignore pause is allowed only in programs that do not have motion groups specifie
d such as an I/O monitoring program. This means that programs that use ignore pa
use cannot contain any motion instructions. Warning If ignore pause is set to ON
, the program MUST NOT issue any motion instructions; otherwise, you could injur
e personnel or damage equipment. When ignore pause is set to ON , the program co
ntinues to run even when an error occurs, a command is issued, or the teach pend
ant is enabled. This allows the program to continue any monitoring function, suc
h as monitoring I/O. When ignore pause is set to OFF , the program pauses when a
n error occurs, a command is issued, or the teach pendant is enabled. 2.11. Stac
k Size When a program is executed, a stack of 500 long words (1200 bytes) is all
ocated unless you specify a stack size. The stack is allocated from available us
er RAM. If a stack overflow alarm occurs, the program needs more stack. Options 
such as TCPMate and Cell Finder require that teach pendant programs have increas
ed stack size. The minimum and default stack size is 500. The maximum stack size
is 4000. 2.12. Collection Collections are used to collect programs together to s
implify program maintenance. Collections are shown as a [TYPE] in the Select Men
u. They are created as a new TP program type, CO. Collection names must be uniqu
e among all programs. Use the SYSTEM Configuration menu to setup collection name
s for CREATE. Refer to Section 3, "COLLECTIONS" . 2.13. No-Disp Sub-Program The 
feature allows you to make a teach pendant program not to display while the prog
ram is CALLED as a sub-program or as a macro. While running the program, the tea
ch pendant display will not display the contents of the sub-program with the “No
-Display” attribute set. When you press the ENTER key while the cursor is at the
CALL statement, or when the program is paused (e.g. HOLD key is pressed), you ca
n see the contents of the sub-program where the program is currently executing. 
You can press the key to return to “No Display” mode. The system also goes back 
to “No Display” mode when the sub-program returns. 2.14. Program Type The progra
m type indicates the kind of Multi-Arm program being used. This should always be
set to Normal Program. 2.15. Multi-Arm Main This item indicates the status of th
e Multi-Arm program in the Family. It can be set to No, independent program, if 
it is not the main program of the Multi-arm family, Yes, Head of Family if it is
the head of a family program, or Yes, Family Member if it is the main program of
a family program. 2.16. Head of Family This item indicates which robot is the he
ad of the family for this job in a Multi-Arm application. 2.17. Family Members T
his item indicates which robots are included as family members in a Multi-Arm ap
plication. 1. OVERVIEW 3. COLLECTIONS
Metadata:
{}