TOPIC: Miscellaneous Instructions
KEYWORDS: miscellaneous, MESSAGE, UALM, user alarm, PAYLOAD, UFRAME_NUM, UTOOL_NUM, TIMER, OVERRIDE, RSR, RESUME, ABORT, PAUSE, CONTINUE, LOCK, UNLOCK, ENABLE, DISABLE, comment, remark
CATEGORY: reference
SOURCE: FANUC Teach Pendant Help System / Operator Manual
APPLIES_TO: R-30iB Plus, TP Programming
---

13. MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUCTIONS 13. MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUCTIONS PROGRAM ELEMENTS 1
3. MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUCTIONS 13.1. Overview There are miscellaneous instruction
s for production control, user alarms, timer setting, speed override, program re
marks, message handling, and parameter setting. 13.2. RSR Enable/Disable Instruc
tion RSR[x] = [action] The RSR enable/disable instruction enables and disables t
he queueing process of the specified RSR. When an RSR signal is set to disable, 
the RSR signal will be ignored. See Figure 61, " RSR Enable/Disable " . Figure 6
1. RSR Enable/Disable 13.3. User Alarm Instruction The user alarm instruction pu
ts the program in an alarm condition, pauses the program, and causes a message t
o be displayed on the error message line as follows: UALM[x] INTP 213 UALM[x] Me
ssage (prog_name, line_num) For example: INTP 213 UALM[1] Check feeder (RSR001, 
47) If the program is resumed, program execution will continue from the program 
line. The user alarm instruction specifies the alarm message to be displayed. Re
fer to the “General Setup” chapter of the Setup and Operations Manual for inform
ation on how to define the contents of a user alarm. See Figure 62, " User Alarm
" . Figure 62. User Alarm 13.4. Timer Instruction Timer instructions allow you t
o start, stop, and reset to 20 different timers in a program. Timers allow you t
o determine how long a routine takes to execute, or how long your entire product
ion program takes to execute. Timers can be started in one program and then stop
ped in another. The status of each timer is displayed in the $TIMER[n] system va
riable, where n is the number of the timer. See Figure 63, " Timer " . TIMER[x] 
= [action] You can display the status of program timers on the STATUS Prg Timer 
screen. Figure 63. Timer 13.5. OVERRIDE Instruction The OVERRIDE instruction set
s the speed override to a percentage value of the programmed speed. See Figure 6
4, " OVERRIDE " . OVERRIDE = x % Figure 64. OVERRIDE 13.6. Remark Instruction Th
e remark instruction allows you to annotate the program. Remark information does
not affect the execution of the program. When you add a remark instruction, you 
enter the message to display within the program. The remark instruction can be f
rom 1 to 32 alphabetic, numeric, punctuation, and blank space characters. The fi
rst character of a remark instruction is an exclamation point (!). The remark in
structions can be displayed with a yellow background color to help clarify the p
rogram content. The use of color text in the editor can be turned On or Off usin
g the Color command available under the EDCMD function key. 13.7. Multi-lng Rema
rk Instruction The multi-lng remark instruction allows you to annotate the progr
am. There are 2 reasons you may wish to use this instead of the original remark 
instruction: You support multiple languages and you wish the remarks to be local
ized for each language. Or you wish to add remarks that are longer than 32 chara
cters. The multi-lng remark information does not affect the execution of the pro
gram. When you add a multi-lng remark instruction, you enter the message to disp
lay within the program. The multi-lng remark instruction can be alphabetic, nume
ric, punctuation, and blank space characters. The first two characters are two h
yphens (––). The multi-lng remark has the following characteristics: Each remark
can be 242 characters although the total for all languages cannot exceed the max
imum line length which is also 242 characters. The remark will automatically be 
split among multiple lines in the editor based on the window width. It uses spac
e to split the line so if the remark has no spaces the display will be truncated
instead. When a new remark is entered it is based on the current language. To en
ter or display a remark for a different language, you must change the language i
n the General Setup menu. When the language is changed, the remark will only dis
play the two hyphens until you enter a new remark for that language. When a prog
ram is loaded, it may contain a remark in a language that does not exist on the 
controller. The language is not created. The remarks will be created but hidden 
from the editor. The .LS file will display all remarks for all languages, even i
f the language does not exist on the controller. In the editor, the remark will 
look as follows: 1: --This program opens the raw part : gripper In the .LS file,
the remark will look as follows: 1: --eg:This program opens the raw part gripper
: --kn:This is KANJI version of remark : --sp:This is Spanish version of remark 
: --jp:Japanese : --fr:French : --gr:German : --ch:Chinese : --tw:Taiwanese : --
ot:Other ; It is useful to add remarks for multiple languages in the .LS file an
d use "Ascii Upload" option to create the program. The suffix must be in lower c
ase. The last suffix must contain the ; to end the remark. The remark can be dis
played with a yellow background color to help clarify the program content. The u
se of color text in the editor can be turned On or Off using the Color command a
vailable under the EDCMD function key. 13.8. Line Remark (Comment out) Instructi
on The Line Remark instruction allows you to disable the execution and editing o
f an line (comment out). Any instruction can be remarked. The Line Remark has th
e following characteristics: The Line Remark instruction will prefix the line wi
th // and then display the line as normal. When the language is changed, the Lin
e Remark instruction is localized. You cannot create a line with //. A line is c
reated in the normal way. You press [EDCMD] Remark to convert a line to a Line R
emark. [EDCMD] Remark will allow multiple lines to be selected and F4 REMARK or 
F5 UNREMARK will remark or unremark all the selected lines. You cannot use // to
comment out just a portion of a line. You cannot edit a line with //. Right arro
w in the TP Editor will not move the cursor off the line number. TOUCHUP on a mo
tion line is ignored. You can only remove the // using [EDCMD] Remark and select
ing unremark. The line is still valid even though it is commented out. In other 
words, a position still exists for the motion lines and a label still exists for
the label lines. In the case of a label, the label will be commented out so it i
s no longer valid to jump to. When a label is unremarked, then the label will be
uncommented out unless another label has been added with the same number. You ca
n perform other modifications on the line such as delete, copy and paste, find a
nd replace, and renumber. Line Remark instructions must be valid instructions in
order to successfully load a TP program or to perform Ascii Upload. You can use 
the Multi-lng Remark Instruction if you need to comment out an invalid instructi
on for Ascii Upload. The toolbars in the icon editor have a Line Remark Toggle b
utton. When pressed, the current line is toggled as a remark/unremark. 13.9. Mes
sage Instruction The MESSAGE instruction displays the specified message on the U
SER screen. The message can be from 1 to 23 alphabetic, numeric, punctuation, an
d blank space characters. If you want a blank line between messages, leave the m
essage content empty. See Figure 65, " Message Instruction " . When the MESSAGE 
[message content] instruction is executed, the user screen is displayed automati
cally. MESSAGE [message content] Figure 65. Message Instruction 13.10. Parameter
Name Instruction You can display and change the value of a system variable throu
gh the parameter name instruction, by using teach pendant read and write operati
ons. Refer to the “Status Displays and Indicators” chapter in the Setup and Oper
ations Manual for more information on system variables. Note Some system variabl
es only allow you to display their value. Therefore, you might not be able to ch
ange the value of some system variables using the parameter name instruction. Th
ere are two kinds of data types for a system variable: Numeric data type, which 
can be stored in a register. Position data type, which can be stored in a positi
on register. The following data types are possible: Cartesian (xyzwpr) Joint (ax
es J1 through J6) When a position data type system variable is stored in a posit
ion register, the position register takes on the data type of the system variabl
e. Note If the system variable you are setting requires a BOOLEAN value (true or
false), use 1 for TRUE and 0 for FALSE. Caution Do not try to store a numeric sy
stem variable in a position register or a position system variable in a numeric 
register; otherwise, you will cause an error message to be displayed. Warning Sy
stem variables control how the robot and controller operate. Do not set system v
ariables unless you are certain of their effect; otherwise, you could injure per
sonnel, damage equipment, or disrupt the normal operation of the robot and contr
oller. $[parameter name] = [value] The $[parameter name]=[value] instruction all
ows you to change (write) the value of a system variable. See Figure 66, " Param
eter Name Write Instruction " . Figure 66. Parameter Name Write Instruction R[ ]
/ PR[ ] = $[parameter name] The [value] = $[parameter name] instruction allows y
ou to display (read) the value of a system variable. See Figure 67, " Parameter 
Name Read Instruction " . Figure 67. Parameter Name Read Instruction 13.11. Maxi
mum Speed Instruction The maximum speed instructions set the maximum speed of jo
int motion and linear or circular motion in the program. If the motion speed exc
eeds the value designated by this instruction, the motion speed is limited by th
e designated value. If you use a maximum speed instruction and If a macro progra
m is called, the maximum speed value is set back to the default value. If a call
ed macro program sets the maximum speed, the maximum speed value is set back to 
the default value when returning to the calling program. Figure 68, " JOINT_MAX_
SPEED Instruction - Multiple Motion Group Syntax " and Figure 69, " LINEAR_MAX_S
PEED Instruction - Multiple Motion Group Syntax " show the maximum speed instruc
tions used in a multiple motion group system. JOINT_MAX_SPEED[...] = ... Figure 
68. JOINT_MAX_SPEED Instruction - Multiple Motion Group Syntax LINEAR_MAX_SPEED[
...] = ... Figure 69. LINEAR_MAX_SPEED Instruction - Multiple Motion Group Synta
x The maximum speed instructions have been shown as they would be used in a mult
iple motion group system. The syntax for the commands is shown in Figure 70, " J
OINT_MAX_SPEED Instruction - Single Motion Group Syntax " and Figure 71, " LINEA
R_MAX_SPEED Instruction - Single Motion Group Syntax " when they are used in a s
ingle motion group system. Figure 70. JOINT_MAX_SPEED Instruction - Single Motio
n Group Syntax Figure 71. LINEAR_MAX_SPEED Instruction - Single Motion Group Syn
tax 12. MATH FUNCTION INSTRUCTIONS 14. MIXED LOGIC INSTRUCTIONS
Metadata:
{}